>> Kadi Kraman: Now we're going
to build our counter feature.
So I'll call this counter.
I'm not very good at naming things, but
basically what it's going to be, is
it's going to be a reminder for you to do
something that you need to do regularly.
So, for example, wash the car or
take out the bins or
change your bed sheets,
something like that.
So we're going to build a UI.
So it will look a little bit like this.
So this is what we're going to start with.
So we're going to say that the thing that
you need to do is do in how many seconds
how many minutes,
how many hours, how many days.
And when the thing that you're
meant to do is overdue,
we're going to have this garish red color.
So you would really see the thing you're
meant to do, you're late doing it.
And the idea is that you could press
this button saying that you've done
the thing and the countdown will reset and
you'll schedule a notification in
the future for you to do the thing.
So to start off, how do we render
a UI that updates every second?
So this is where it actually get
more complicated now with React
compiler because React compiler,
being the clever thing that it is,
doesn't update UI elements
that haven't changed in state.
So that's something to bear in mind if
you're building a UI that needs to update
every second.
Let's open Our counter screen.
So this is this index screen.
So let's just see how do we create
a component that just renders seconds,
elapsed, so update every second.
I'll do a useState here.
So useState.
And let's start with 0.
And this will be our seconds elapsed.
And set seconds elapsed.
>> Kadi Kraman: So, we're not
gonna keep this code indefinitely.
Just gonna render this in the text so
we can see it on the screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, I want update
this set seconds elapsed every second.
And to do that we're going to use
a use effect and an integral.
Two very dangerous things
to be used sparingly.
So let's do a use effect.
Remember this takes in a function and
we only want to run this once when
the component is initially rendered.
So we'll pass in this empty array.
Now we want to create
a Node.js interval So
we'll do setInterval,
so this also takes a function.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
the second argument is, so
the first argument is something
to do after this interval, and
the second argument is how long you
want the interval to be in milliseconds.
So we want it to be one second,
which is 1000 milliseconds.
So in this Interval,
we want to set seconds elapsed.
And in this case, so we can't use
the seconds elapsed from the used state
because this function only has access to
the things that are in the use effect,
so this is not going to update.
But use state functions with the setState,
you can also pass in a function
rather than the new value.
So the function tells you
what the current value is.
So we'll take the current value and
we'll increment it by 1.
So val + 1.
>> Kadi Kraman: And the last thing, and
this is very important if you're ever
dealing with intervals or anything that
you're setting up to do asynchronous
things in the background, you want to make
sure that you tidy up after yourself.
So you need to clear the interval
when the component gets unwanted.
So this set interval actually returns
a number, which is through interval ID.
So cons, interval ID.
I guess you can see this
is a node.Js timeout,
and in a use effect,
you can actually return a function.
And this gets run.
So this is like,
if anyone remembers class components,
this is like, before unmount,
like a component lifecycle.
So this gets run just before
the component gets unmounted.
So here we'll do a clear interval
to tidy up our intervalid.
So this ensures that we're not gonna have
multiples of these intervals running at
the same time.
So now when I save, you can see that my
little counter has started incrementing.
And when I reload,
>> Kadi Kraman: It
will start from zero again.
So if you don't do this clearInterval and
you reload,
you'll see that the counter is starting
to count multiples at the same time.
So if you're seeing that effect ever,
then you've probably forgotten
to clear your past time.
So if you see that, you've probably
forgotten to clear your previous timeout.
Okay, so a library that I pretty much
always install on all my projects
when I have to deal
with dates is date-fns.
It's one of two libraries that
are really popular for dates,
I think date-fns is a moment.
And this is a great example of a library
that you might have used on the web and
it also works in react
native which is amazing and
the main things that I like using in
date-fns is that you can format so
i'm going to use this here as well but
you can format a date given
like this format structure.
You can get a distance.
Yeah, format distance and
format distance trick.
So this is really handy.
Because, in words, you can say
how long ago something happened.
So rather than saying that,
this happened in May the 4th,
it will actually tell you in words
that this happened 12 days ago.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
it has a bunch of other utility functions.
>> Kadi Kraman: So,
let's install a date-fns.
So, we're using npx.xor.install, and
the previous time that I pointed this out,
we had an example of a thing
that we installed that said.
Over installing an SDK,
whatever compatible package.
And this is actually an example
of a library that doesn't have
an SDK compatible package because
either we don't track it or
we just assume that it's
always going to be compatible.
And this log here prints out that whether
it was an SDK compatible package or not.
So here it says installing
one other package and
other in this scenario means that it
is not tracked to be SDK compatible.
But this is just to show that you can
install pretty much all libraries using
mpx export install.
So it's just a nice default to get into.